[Music]
the Trade Federation upsets order in the
Galactic Republic by blockading the
planet Naboo in preparation for a
full-scale invasion the Republic's
leader Supreme Chancellor valorum
dispatches Jedi Master qui-gon jinn and
his apprentice obi-wan Kenobi to
negotiate with the federation viceroy
nute Gunray Darth Sidious a Sith Lord
and the Trade Federation secret advisor
orders the Viceroy to kill the Jedi and
begin their invasion with an army of
battle droids the Jedi escape and flee
to Naboo during the invasion qui-gon
saves a Gungan outcast Jar Jar Binks
from being run over and killed by a
droid transport indebted to qui gong Jar
Jar leads the Jedi to an underwater
Gungan City the Jedi unsuccessfully try
to persuade the Gungan later boss nass
into helping the people of Naboo though
they are able to obtain transportation
to feed the capital city on the surface
they rescue Queen Padme Amidala the
ruler of the Naboo people and escape the
planet on a royal starship enroute to
the Republic capital planet of Khorasan
Amidala ship is damaged as they passed
the Federation blockade and becomes
unable to use its hyperdrive landing for
repairs on the desert planet Tatooine
qui-gon Jar Jar astromech droid r2d2 and
Padme disguised as one of her
handmaidens visit the settlement of Mos
Espa to purchase new parts at a junk
shop they meet the shops owner
Watto and his 9 year old slave Anakin
Skywalker who was a gifted pilot and
engineer and who has created a protocol
droid called c-3po Kwajalein senses a
strong presence of the force within
Anakin and is convinced that he is the
chosen one of the Jedi prophecy who will
bring balance to the force
qui-gon wagers Anakin's freedom with
Watteau in a pod race which Anakin wins
anakin joins the group to be trained as
a Jedi leaving behind his mother Shmi
enroute to their starship qui-gon
encounters darth maul darth sidious his
apprentice who was sent to capture
Amidala a duel ensues but qui-gon
quickly disengages and escapes on board
the starship qui-gon and obi-wan escort
Amidala to Khorasan so that she can
plead her people's case to Chancellor
valorum and the Galactic Senate qui-gon
asks the Jedi Council for permission to
train Anakin as Jedi but the council
refuses concerned the Anika is
vulnerable to the dark side undeterred
qui-gon wants to relieve obi-wan from
his tutorship and take up Anakin as his
new disciple meanwhile Naboo Senator
Palpatine persuades Amidala to make a
vote of no confidence in valorum to
elect a more capable Chancellor to
resolve the crisis on Naboo
though she is successful in pushing for
the vote Amidala grows frustrated with
the corruption in the Senate and decides
to return to Naboo qui-gon and obi-wan
are ordered by the Jedi Council to
accompany the Queen to Naboo as well as
to confirm the return of the Sith when
they believe to be extinct on Naboo
Padme reveals herself to the Gungans as
Queen Amidala and persuades them into an
alliance against the Trade Federation
Jar Jar joins his people in battle
despite being inept at combat against
the droid army while Padme leads the
hunt for Viceroy Gunray in Theed during
a battle on a starship hangar to free
Naboo pilots and it can take shelter in
a vacant star fighter and inadvertently
triggers its autopilot joining the
battle against the Federation Droid
control ship in space
Anakin blunders into the hangar of the
Droid control ship and destroys the ship
from within before escaping deactivating
the droid army qui-gon and obi-wan
battle Darth Maul who mortally wounds
qui-gon but is eventually cut in half by
obi-wan as he dies qui-gon requests that
obi-wan train Anakin subsequently
Palpatine is elected as the new Supreme
Chancellor and Gunray is arrested Yoda
promotes obi-wan to the rank of Jedi
Knight and reluctantly accepts Anakin as
Obi Wan's apprentice Padme presents a
gift of appreciation and friendship to
the Gungans at a festive ceremony
[Music]